# Appending, Inserting & Removing items to/from a list 📚

## Appending (adding) items to a list.
- Unlike strings, we can change individual items in a list using 
indexing.

- Lists are said to be *"mutable"*, i.e. individual items can 
be appended, removed or modified.

Consider the list shown. 
````py
# We can declare the list and print it out as follows:

myList = [1, 19, 27, 8, 5, 9]
print(myList)
````

- To add an extra item to the list, say 11, we use the ``append()`` function.

- Type the following:
````py
myList.append(11)
````

- Add this line to your program to print out 
the updated list:
````py
print(myList)
````

👉 Experiment by creating a new list `newList = [ ]` and appending an item to it.

## Inserting items into a list.
 
- To insert an item into a list, we use the ``insert()`` function.

- Let’s use the list from the previous example again and insert the value 13 into the second location on the list, *i.e. between 1 and 19.*

- Type these lines:
````py
myList = [1, 19, 27, 8, 5, 9]
print(myList)
````

- We then add this line to make the insertion:
````py
myList.insert(1, 13)
````

💡 *Note: that the first argument in the brackets above gives the 
index of the inserted item and the second argument gives its 
value.*

- Finish off by printing the updated list:
````py
print(myList)
````

👉 Experiment by creating a list of your own `newList = [ ]` and inserting items into it in different locations.


## Removing items from a List
- We use the ``remove()`` function to remove an item from a list, for example:
````py
myList = [1, 19, 27, 8, 5, 9]
print(myList)
````

- To remove the last item from the list, add this code:
````py
myList.remove(myList[-1])
````

Finish off by printing the updated list:
````py
print(myList)
````

- Your output should be:
````
[1, 19, 27, 8, 5, 9]
[1, 19, 27, 8, 5]
````
👉 Again, experiment by creating a new list `newList = [ ]` and try removing various items from it.

